---
layout: default
title: Baptist Ministers in Queensland, Australia 1849-1906
menu: barq
---

## {{ page.title }}

Compiled by David Parker

© 1999  corrected 12 July 2005, 19 April 2007

See also: [Baptist Ministers in Queensland 1907-55](/barq/lists/min1955/)

The first Baptist minister in Queensland was Rev. Charles Stewart, who arrived in 1849 as chaplain on the Fortitude and became the minister of the United Evangelical Church. (see page 8) He was followed soon after by Rev. Thomas Deacon who also served in a united church, in Ipswich, and later as founding pastor and benefactor of the Baptist church there. (His son, William Thomas Deacon, a former student for the ministry, arrived with Stewart in 1849.) (see next issue) The third minister was Rev. Charles Smith (about whom very little is known); to him belongs the honour of being the first minister of a Baptist church. Revs. B.G. Wilson and J. Kingsford, to whom so much was owed, were the next in line. (Wm. Moore arrived earlier, in 1855, but was not a minister at the time;  J.T. Hinton was ordained at Maryborough in 1861.)

Information presented here has been gathered from local records (especially the Queensland Freeman/Baptist, the 1905 Jubilee history and local church histories), with additional material from sources interstate and overseas (especially England). Acknowledgment is expressed to previous researchers, archivists and other friends who have assisted. This material is a published version of fuller records in the process of development at the Baptist Archives, Queensland.  More information and corrections are welcome.

**Details presented include** (where known) dates of birth, death and marriage; place or mode of theological training; date and place of ordination; churches served; other positions, honours and items of interest.

Biographies and cameos of the many of the ministers listed below are available from the **[Baptist Historical Society of Queensland](/index.html)**.

This list includes those who served the mainstream Baptist churches, which became members of the Baptist Union of Queensland, established in 1877. It also includes as a separate list (about 20) of those who served the German Baptist Churches, which maintained their own German Baptist Conference. These churches were served by many lay pastors and only a few ordained ministers (who came from Germany and USA). Although friendly relations usually existed between the German and English churches, it was not until after the First World War that these churches became a regular part of the Baptist Union of Queensland.

{% include list-min1906eng.md %}
 
{% include list-min1906ger.html %} 