## LARGE CROWD FOR LIEBFEST

Overflow crowds packed ~he Laidley Baptist Church on Saturday, July 5,
1986 for a celebration of German Baptist witness which was sponsored by
the Baptist Historical Society of Queensland and the churches of the
area.

These churches, six in number, were originally com.enced by· German
settlers i~ the last half of the 19th Century. They retairied their
ethnic identity for about 60 years and formed a separate Conference or
Union of German Baptist Churches before integrating fully with the
Baptist Union of Queensland in the 1920s and 19305. Full details of the
churches and the Conference were published in the last issue of this
Newsletter which was a special edition distributed on the day of the
celebration. It has sold well and copies are still available.

Horethan 300 people participated in the first session, featuring
historical addresses by Rev. J.E. White and Mr Glenn Robert~ ~ho has
carried out important documentation and research on these churches,
their pastors and the Conference.

Those present included members and friends from the German churches
(Kalbar, Boonah, Minden, Marburg, Tarampa, Tent Hill and Gatton) and
large groups from Toowo.o .m ba, Brisbane, the Gold Coast and Kingaroy •
Rousing singing was led by MrG. Bargen and a map of the area and
photos of the existing churches focused the attention of the audience.
The presentation included a musical item and Scripture reading in
Berman, and poems by one of the founding pastors, Hermann Windolf, who
Has the subject of one of Mr Roberts' addresses.

Previous to this openin9 seSSion, partiCipants inspected historical
displays from each of the churches which were on view in the adjoining
hall. These displays, which generated a good deal of interest,
consisted of church and family records, artefacts, communion services,
Bibles and other literature. There were even farm implements and
machinery in the yard outside. .
The second part of the celebration was a dinner in the forlll of a
-Liebefest- conducted at the Laidley Shire Hall. This was followed by
an inspirational programme contributed by members of the participating
churches. A minor disturbance in the midst of all this was a power
failure which threw the premises into darkness for 20 minutes.
Emergency repairs enabled the programme to continue with only a mini.um
of alteration to plans. The enforced fellowship in the gloom seemed to
enhance the value of the evening!

Again, a capacity crowd attended this part of the .celebration,
estimated at around 300 packing the hall and leaving standing room
only. The various musical and vocal items, many in the German language,
were enthusiastically received. The evening walconcluded bya supper
after a short inspirational address by the president of the Historical
Society, Dr. David Parker,~on the theme, "What is the meaning of these
things?"

The response to this function was overwhelming and it was undoubtedly
the most !Successful of all BHSQ functions. Thanks is due: to the
churches of the area and expecially to Mr Dick Scanlan, his· local
committee and their helpers who did such an outstanding job. The ladies
were to be congratulated for the magnificent catering job!

It is to be hoped that this celebration will stimulate even more
interest in the history 0+ the German Baptist witness. Special
appreciation is due to Glenn Roberts for his invaluable work on this
project. Further materials and information relating to this work would
add even more to the store of knowledge. It may even be possible to
publish the material in a more permanent way.