## Coming Events

### Celebration Uf German Baptist Witness

28 June l9B6 at Laidley Baptist Church

Many churches in the Lockyer district were first
established by German settlers during the middle of the
19th Century and later. They formed a virile Conference of
German Baptist Churches which operate until about l930 when
they merged fully with the life of the Baptist Union. The
influence of these churches has been felt far beyond their
own area. This has been a most significant part of the
Queensland Baptist story which is becoming better
understood with access to documents which have only
recently become available and with better knowledge of some
that have been known of before.

A celebration of the German Baptist work is being planned
by the BHSQ in conjunction with the churches of the area
for June 28th, 1986. It will be held at Laidley Church and
will commence about mid-afternoon and continue into the
evening. Features will include music, displays
presentations and the launching of a written document
summarising important aspects of the work.

Plan now to be involved. More details will be announced when `
they become available.


### Display At Annual Assembly 

The BHSQ plans to mount a display at the l98b Annual "
Assembly of the Baptist Union. But help is needed to plan
and mount the display. Please contact the President now if
you can help with ideas, manpower and time.

### Membership

Individuals, churches and other groups are invited to
support the Baptist Historical Society of Queensland by
becoming members. Membership subscriptions are the only
regular source of finances. Members receive the BHSG
Newsletter, and are able to join in the Society’s
activities and have a good opportunity to contribute to its
historical work.

