## Tracking our First Minister's Family - Thanks to the Internet!

Rev Charles Stewart was the first Baptist minister to serve in Queensland (or Moreton Bay as it was known at the time). He arrived in 1849 as the chaplain on Dr John Dunmore Lang's first immigrant ship, the Fortitude. On landing in Brisbane he soon began church services for all protestant denominations, especially for the Baptists, Presbyterians and Congregationalists who came on that vessel and the other two organised by Dr Lang, the Chaseley and the Lima, which arrived later in the year. These services developed into the United Evangelical Church (UEC) which Stewart led until the end of 1854 when he had to leave Brisbane in ill health. He returned to England and then visited the continent in search of a cure. Following this, his sister Elizabeth who was married to Archibald Hall, a military officer stationed in Bermuda, took him to her home where he died on 2 March 1858, at the age of 38. He was buried the next day in the Wesleyan Cemetery with Presbyterian rites by the chaplain of his brother-in-law's unit, the 26th Regiment of Foot.

When we researched and published the story of Charles Stewart and the UEC at the time of the 150th anniversary in 1999, much new information was discovered about Stewart's remarkable ministry in Brisbane, and in particular what befell him after his departure. However there was still not much known about his family - his siblings and his parents. Now we have found out quite a lot more-thanks the Internet giving access to documents.

When Stewart arrived in Brisbane, we knew from his letters that he was accompanied by his older sister who acted as his housekeeper. However, the arrangement did not work out - she became very authoritarian, or as Charles put it, a "Dictratrix"; he believed "no man of any spirit at could even brook to be a cipher in his own house" (let alone a minister!). So, Stewart brought the matter to a head, and as he reported to his counterpart in Sydney, Rev John Ham, his sister left in "high dudgeon" on 15 April 1849, and headed south. Later, Charles was anxious to track her down, and sought the help of Ham in doing so. He found that the last that was known of her was that she had been in Sydney but was now thought to be in a town further south hoping to set up a school. Although Charles sent money to her, she was determined not to have contact with him or receive any pastoral help from Ham or others in the church.

No name was given to this sister, and it was not clear if she was the same sister who later cared for him in Bermuda; in fact, we did not even know how many sisters there were. There was only one source of possible help - a passenger list from the Fortitude, but the original document had been destroyed and the only ones available were reconstructed years later. The various lists offered such names as Anne and Caroline, but judging by other claims in these lists which were highly speculative, no reliance could be placed on them.

The first degree of certainty arose when, during the research, information was gained about the death of Charles' brother, Rev Robert Stewart, a Presbyterian minister in Scotland, which was reported in the Moreton Bay Courier at the time. He died on 2 June 1851 at Tranent, near Edinburgh where he was the parish minister. The words on the plaque erected in his memory in the church grounds referred to the sorrow of his "brother and sisters" which at least allowed for the possibility that the sister who came to Moreton Bay was not the same as the one, Elizabeth, who cared for him in his last days. Given the friction between Charles and his sister in 1849, it would be surprising if they were one and the same.
Elizabeth was the executor of Charles' will which had to be processed in Brisbane because he had property here (she did also). This took place quite a few years after his death, in 1873. (The legal trail was discovered when the original research was taking place, and indeed, it led to the discovery that Charles' last place of living was Bermuda.) There was no reference to any other family members in Charles' will except Elizabeth.

