## The Live, Writings and Work of Hermann Windorf 1846 - 1922

### by Glenn Roberts

On the 19th May, 1846 in the town of Grunanplan Germany, an eleven day old child calle Freidrich Wilhelm Hermann was christened in the local Lutheran church. It seems he was the first child of the family, his father being Friedfich Wilhem Conrad, a mastermason, and his mother Marie-Wilhelmine Agnes, bore hime at 23 years of age. Four sister and two brothers were to follow. Some time between the birth of the first sister, Anna Mathilda Marie in 1848 and the second, their father swung over to the new evangelical movement known as Baptists. (These details were all copied from the above church register in March 1984 by some unknown person and entered in the Baptist archives in Hamburg, to be discovered later that year.) But what makes this so remarkable? - this lad known by his name Hermann, ws to be baptised by immersion at 16 years of age, by a Baptist pastor Kipperberg, enter a missionschool in Hamburg three years later, probably under the encouragement of his uncle Hinrich - a harbour missionary, and after being trained under the leader of the movement, J.C. Oncken, ministered in his own country for over a decade before migrating to a remote missionfield called Australia.

The location of Hermann's first pastorate in Germany at the age of 22 was Herford, in Wesphalia. this was from 1868 to 1870. He held daily revival prayer meetings and baptised converts as young as 10 and 13 years old. (1) An historian of this church, W. Riemenschneider, described his as "of a quite meek disposition, extending love to the poor and needy" and conducting baptisms at different stations, especially of young people. (2) Hermann's pen had also become quite active in ministry, as can be seen from the titles of three sermon collections he published in these years, as well as a poem on the events of the time in biblical perspective, which he dedicated to the Kaiseress Agusta. (3)

A motion moved by Oncken at the Northwest Union conference promoted Hermann to the Braunschweig (Brunswick) area where he served for another 9 years or so, marrying in the meantime. An enquiry to the present-day Baptist church in that city, where records have survived, shows that no mention is made of him, but his work there is confirmed by Windolf in his journals.

Due to pressures and war in the country, many were migrating to freer lands under assisted passage and otherwise, and the young pastor felt a call to follow some of them to Australia in late 1877. He and his wife, both aged 31, and two childrenFredrich (3) and Hannah (1)  sailed from Hamburg via London and reached Moreton Bay in 19 stormy weeks, during which he kept a vivid diary which is preserved in "der Pilger". 1879 p. 6ff

They were classsed as "free settlers" (4). Their arrival on 20th February, 1878 was celebrated with joy by the Baptist settlers and Windolf, being a true journalist, is best left to describe it for himself:

    "It was late summer, and the heat due to long absence rain was very burdensome to us; on the first night; which we spent with all the others in the immigration quarters, a fearful storm broke. These are heavier than those in Germany and have a beneficial influence on the climate and the people's state of health. On the morning of the next day, a friendly angel in the form of br. E (der) appeared to us,sent from the 56 mile distant German brethren at Fassifern Scrub..."
    
The description of his journey through Ipswich and Normanby Reserve contains incredible detail. He reports tha later "bros. Kruger and Peters laid down their positions as leaders of the assemblies of Fassifern Scrub and Mt Walker respectively, showing me that I had been elected as teacher and elder of both". All began well, but by August that year Windolf had disagreed severly with the same lay-leaders over handling of monies he gives to the "Pilger" magazine are different: "the admittance of members was often made too lightly - there was a lack of sound and thorough grounding - now they group themselves together under leadership of a man capable of unbridled ego and greed for power, claiming to be a church!"

Consequently, the 1st of January 1879 saw Windolf installed in the "geographical centre" of the missionfield - Rosewood Scrub (now Marburg): Through the group there then numbered 96, by 1st January 1880, 47 had been excluded and nine lost through other reasons leaving only 58! This indicates a severity of disipline on Windolf's part. His fervent activity is shown by this report to br. Brucker of the "Pilger": "In the 1st quarter of 1879 I preached the saving Word of God in 60 meetings, led 31 prayer meetings, gave a funeral message, served 4 times at the breaking of bread, and made 70 home visits", most of which were done on horseback! Obviously he was trying to take on too much. (5) The actual minutes of Marburg only bigin on 16th May 1880 (Pentecost) when Bethel chapel opened there. They are recorded in Windolf's handwriting up to March 1883, revealing much of his thinking wand attitudes; for example, and admonition against unduly long prayers.

In spite of the break that had been made with Fassifern Scrub (Engerlsburg), real times of revival were experienced at Marburg. For instance, in Easter of 1881 at Tarampa Scrub's "Zoar" chapel, where a revival meeting after a Lovemeal continued till daybreak, 19 souls were won over to the Gospel, followed by 32 next Sunday after a public baptism. (6) However, strain and poor health got the better of him. In July of 1882, Windolf negotiated peace and reconcillation with Fassifern where he had served previously on the agreement that old issues be not entered into. His last entry in the Marburg minutes describes his concern for the continuation of the work there:

    "he would in no way let God's work suffer in favour of temporal things -  on the contrary! It was painful for him ... due to this suffering, to give his position up ... agreed that we should have another worker to help in the great field of labour for both churches (including Brisbane River), br Windolf would take it on himself to (write to) Germany in this regard." (He often wrote of himself in the third person)
    
From this point, Windolf's pastoral ministry recedes for a while and his writing ininstry comes to the fore. The first issue of the Pilger for 1884 carries a poem by him called "Under the Cross", and a few months later, a commemorative poem of his was chosen to appear with the obituary of J.G. Oncken in this magazine, showing that his standing as a Christian poet was already acknoledged in the German-speaking world. It was three years later though that his first printed anthology appeared on the market:- "Thautropfen", (Duedrops) from a publisher in Bonn of which two samples are preserved in the Pilger.

However, except for a few references in the minutes of the German conference churches, Windolf's name and pen is silent for over a decade. We can deduce however, that he pursued a quite "behind the scenes ministry in these years, being instrumental in calling further pastors over e.g. M. Bernoth (1885) and S. Bluhm in 1900. In 1901, a litarary surprise appeared: a collection on Oncken's sermons from notes that herrmann (and his uncle Heinrich) had taken down decades before and brought over with him, entitled "Licht und Recht" (Light and Justice), was sent back to be published by the Baptist publishing house at Kassel, and is prefaced by hom. Also, a similar work by the Jewish convert Kobner was put out by Windolf. (7)

But a revival in ministry was soon to come. A paper in the 1904 conference booklet records Windolf's fervour on keeping the "Sabbath" showing he was alive an well, and in 1905, he was "festively reinstalled" as pastor in Marburg. His revised list of members there numbers 81. During this second pastorate he continued as reporter for the conference to the "Wahrheitszeuse" over the next two years. By 1908 he had a new lease of life: another anthology appeared called "Psalmenklange" (Sounds of Psalms) and he commenced a series of ministry trips to the Kingaroy  area which are described in "Deusche Beilage" - German supplement to the Qld News Budget of Aug. 29th, 1908. Thirty years of his ministry in Queensland was celebrated the same year (8)  when he was sixty-two years of age.

At some stage Windolf must have also studied up homopathic medicine, which became evident from notices in the "Deutsche Beilage" where his cure for diptheria is mentioned. Mechanics and architecture were also part of his repertoir, according to his grandson Henry, who claims that books on these subjects were left from his grandfather's library, and even contained some of his own design!

In 1909, Windolf resigned from Marburg, being replaced by pastor Ehmke, and went to live with his sone near Engelburg. There he continued his writings and the next year saw the publication of two further anthologies: Sonnenstrahlem" (Sunrays) and "Efeu und Himmelsschusssel" (Ivy and Primrose) Copies of both of these have survived. In 1911, another one - "Unter Maien und Palmen" (Among Mayflower and Palmtrees) appeared, but it is not now extant. The Qld News Budget, now in the Oxley Library, gives us such fine details as a stroke in December 1911 and a fall from a vehicle in July 1912 which Windolf suffered in his old age. Undetered though, he put out two more collections of poems in 1913: "Aus Hohen und Tiefan" (From heights adn depths) and "Heimatwarts" (Homewards), the latter indicating his looking forward to the heavely home. Both of these were acclaimed by the Governor of Queensland and the chancellor of the University. He was well known by this time in Germany as a poet. This genius even delved into horticulture and became a honary member of the "Luther Burbank Society" of California, distributing the pamphlets in Queensland. (9) As well, a new anthology called "Glockentone" was produced, despite the war, the copies were shipped to this state.

By 1921 Windolf had put out a selection of hmns and poems for "recitation at all kinds of festive occasions". But this was to be his last work, for by 22nd February, the next year his pen stopped forever, following a stroke. He was survived by a wife, and three generations, but also by many literay jewels,many of which remain untrnaslated.He was buried in a humble grave at the Kalbar public cemetery.

June 1986

Endnotes:
1. Missionblatt 1868 p 106; 1869 p43<br/>
2. Solchen Schatz. 1965. p 31<br/>
3. See Australian Baptist 2nd Nov. 1930<br/>
4. Queensland State Archives, passenger lists for the "Gauntlett"<br/>
5. Der Pilger 1879, p 94 He gave his address as P.O. Frederichs, via Rosewood.<br/>
6. Wehrheitszeuge 1881, 5th Sept.<br/>
7. Qld News Budget, Deutsche Beilage 8th Sept. 1911.<br/>
8. Wahrheitszeuge, 1908, p <br/>
9. New Budget, 18th July,  1914

