## Archives Going Digital

The story of Gatton Baptist Churchs history (told elsewhere in this issue) as saved, displayed and recorded by Mrs Eunice Cowell is a remarkable example of what can be achieved by someone dedicated to the task. It is all the more significant because it is a hand written account and illustrated by many pictures taken by the author with a film camera. Surely it means that others with more advanced equipment could equal this, and do more.

The records are mainly paper minute books, membership rolls, magazines, newspaper clippings and the rest but increasingly church records are digital word processing documents, accounting programmes, spreadsheets, emails, digital pictures and videos. Then there are the uncaptured decisions which were discussed and finalised by mobile phone or text. Digital processing seems to generate many more records than before, and they are scattered around many storages devices such as floppy disks, hard drives, flash memory sticks, or at some web storage site. They are harder to manage and tabulate, and it seems they are near impossible to identify, or to retrieve when needed.

So the task of the Archivist is the same, only different the same because the need will always be there, as with traditional paper records, to create, preserve, organise and retrieve the vital information about an organisations life. However it is different because the process is new and unfamiliar and so there are no established procedures; the volume of material is much greater; the storage processes and locations are more complex; and the requirements for sorting, identifying and retrieving are more elusive. Then there are the huge problems of rapidly changing technology which include hardware that goes obsolete, software needing to be upgraded and storage media that changes and deteriorates. There is also a personnel factor many more people are involved in the whole process from the original creation of records, through to the selection of material for retention, actual preservation, storage and accession.

Whereas traditional records sat in a filing cabinet and everyone knew how to preserve them and when to move them to the Archives, today the records are invisible and difficult to identify, no one knows who is responsible for them, and the cost of providing storage, management and access and the need for continually updating technology means that it is a forbidding task. We have not even mentioned questions of security and guarantees about authenticity of data or legal issues surrounding what constitutes an official record when it is not exactly the media that it sits on or the digital ones and zeroes that constitutes the original record!

Churches and denominational organisations are moving quickly to a no-paper, digital environment. This means new procedures and policies are needed. Baptist Heritage Queensland and the Baptist Church Archives Qld are working on the problem and have updated their Guide for Managing Church Records to reflect the new situation (ask for one!). Briefly, it includes the recommendation that if a church does not have an advanced digital office with sophisticated IT support, it should continue to store its important records in paper form. This means Minutes of core organisations (Deacons/Board/Council and other departments of the church), annual reports, financial statements and key other documents should be printed out on good quality paper and bound strongly. These should be clearly labelled and kept in cool, dry and insect proof condition under the care of an authorised officer of the church, or deposited in the Baptist Archives or other such repository. Books, magazines, photographs, videos and other useful material should be preserved similarly. The church should develop a clear and comprehensive policy on the creation, storage and use of their vital records. This policy needs to be reviewed regularly and the storage conditions and material need to be checked frequently.

Churches that have good IT support should ensure that suitable hardware and software are installed, and adequate storage services acquired. Then staff need to be trained to create appropriate records of the churchs business and activities. The files of these records should be carefully selected so that all the key documents are included and readily identifiable. These should then be carefully tagged, backed up and archived to reliable permanent media, catalogued and stored in optimum conditions either at the church or elsewhere. Note that it is important to distinguish between backing up data in case of a disaster such as hardware failure or fire, and the permanent retention of data for archival purposes which requires better arrangements for organisation and retrieval, and for perpetual storage. Specialist advice is needed to ensure that archival quality hardware and software is installed. Help is needed with training all those involved in the process, including any staff who create records as well as those given the responsibility of caring for the records archivally.

Archived electronic records should be under the control of an authorised officer, and come under the same kind of policy as for paper records. It will be necessary to select suitable file formats and media for the storage of documents so that they can be accessed well into the future by people such as officers of the church and researchers wanting information. It will also be necessary for future church officers to be able to access this material so it can be transferred to new media with appropriate software before technology changes and leaves existing software and media obsolescent, thus losing the records and information completely.

In both paper and e-records, full attention should be given to developing a church policy to govern the creation and retention of adequate records. In contrast with earlier times, many discussions and decisions now take place orally, by phone or by email. Furthermore, instead of a group of people working together and coming to a decision about plans and developments, it is more common now for this kind of activity to be handled by an individual without the same kind of record keeping as before. The key elements of oral and email discussion and individual decision making need to be recorded and preserved.

There are many reasons why the recording of this information and the careful preservation of paper and digital records is important. The most obvious that proper and responsible administration of any organisation, especially a church, needs an adequate record of its activities. Then effective planning for the future depends on proper knowledge of the past which is provided by the records of the church. Perhaps the most critical reason for a properly managed Archives system is that church officers and employees need legal protection to cover their activities; the lack of recognized records leaves people vulnerable to costly litigation and embarrassment to the individual and church, and financial cost which could be crippling.

Finally, and most importantly, the life of the church needs to be recorded because it is the testimony of Gods people and of Gods Kingdom at work lose that record and we lose an important part of our existence! So the records need to be preserved properly so that people in the future can learn the story of God at work in our midst.