## New South Wales Notes

The Baptist Historical Society of NSW recently conducted an essay
competition which invited submission of original work on some
historical theme. (see BHSQ Newsletter No 21 A total of 7 entries was
received covering Baptist work in 3 states, but none from Queensland!
The essays featured the stories of individual churches, a Baptist
Union. and an individual. The churches were Undercliffe and
Riverstone·5chofields in NSW and Moonee Ponds and Kyneton in Victoria;
an account of church extension work in South Australia focused on the
Baptist Union there and Rev Alan Webb a promoter of the formation of
Union in NSW was the subject of another.

The winner of the $150 prize for the competition was John
Walker whose work was on South Australian church extension. The 
competition was judged a success and will be repeated on a two yearly
basis.

The October newsletter of the BHS of NSW features a summary of
the lecture given to the Society by Rev. Michael Chavura titled,
"Hyper-Calvinism in the Strict and Particular Baptist Churches of
Australia." Pastor Chavura is undertaking detailed research on this
topic which should throw a great deal of light on this important but
often neglected section of Baptist witness. Other articles in the
newsletter deal with interesting aspects of transferring of members
from one church to another at the turn of the century and outreach to
Asian immigrants during the 19th century.

Some back issues of ”The Recorder“ are housed in the Oueensland
Baptist archives. For correspondence with the NSW Society, write, c/-
hurling College, l20 Herring Rd, Eastwood. NSU. 2122. Their next
meeting features the presentation, “Looking towards the 150th
Anniversary of the Central Church (Sydneyl' and will be their annual
meeting.
