## WARWICK'S 75TH ANNIVERSARY
###By Thy Sovereign Grace, by the pastor, John Churchward

This year the Warwick Baptist Church has celebrated its 75th
Anniversary. To mark the occasion, special services were held and a
book telling the history of the church was prepared by the present
pastor, John Churchward.



It ' is an A4 sized volume, of 110 Simply bound pages with several
photographs and an attractive front cover with an impression of the
church building. The title, By They Sovereign Grace is a saying that
was frequently heard in the prayers of Rev. W.G. Doull, the first
lIinister of the church after it became independent. As such, it forms a
theme for the author around which to write his story.

The church was formed from a meeting on 11 October, 1911 when nine
people resolved to approach the Baptist Union (or Association as it was
then) to form a church, building on services that had been held
in the district occasionally over the previous 20 years. The opening
services of the new fellowship were conducted on 19 November by Rev.
Ezekiel Barnett, President of the Baptist Union. It was a rainy day,
but there was an encouraging crowd to hear the sermons on Ephesians
3.19 and Revelation 5.9.

Various rented properties were used for services for a few years until
a hall owned by a local Brethren farmer was purchased, which served the
church well until the present brick structure was erected in 1964.

For 20 y~ars, the church was served by pastors appointed by the Home
Mission. They were only short pastorates, so that commencing with F.A.
Leeder in 1912 and running through to Rev. C.J. Kajewski (1927-31)
there were 16 altogether, with two years vacancy included! Finally, in
1931, the 67 members decided it was time to step out of the Home
Mission fQld. Rev. W.G.Doull, formerly of Ariah Park, N.S.W., was the
first of nine pastors to serve since that time.

The story of the church, its activities, people and outreach is told
si.ply and effectively in these pages. The author has collected a great
deal of information from local people and many other sources. There are
lIany personal glimpses and on several occasions frank assessments of
the situation are offered. The, narrative centres on the pastors whose
ministries are sketched in warm terms. However, other segments of the
church's activities are not neglected by any means. And the story keeps
moving as each phase of the church's life is interpreted in the light
of its overall growth and mission. The final chapter summari!5es the
highlights and presents a challenging vision for the future.
(Review copy kindly supplied by Pastor Churchward.)