## Baptist Church Archives Turns 30!

**The Archives is Born**

The end of 2012 marks 30 years since work began on organising the historical records of the Baptist Union of Queensland. Rev Dr David Parker had worked with these records originally in 1979 in the course of his doctoral research and found them to be in a good state, but completely unorganised and only accessible by special arrangement with the Baptist Union office. So in December 1982, he volunteered his services to put them in order. On his initial contact, the records were in a cupboard in the ceiling of the BUQ offices which were then located in rented premises in The Wool Exchange Building, 69 Eagle St, Brisbane (now the site of Riparian Plaza and 111 Eagle St). In 1982, the BUQ had just moved to its own building at 225 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley; the records were in a strong room in the basement (primarily used as the printing workshop).

The most important items in the collection were the BUQ Minute books comprising the Executive, Council and Assemblies from the establishment of the Baptist Union (then Association) in 1877, and the key committees and departments; there were also the denominational Yearbooks from 1907 when they first appeared and sundry bundles of correspondence and other records. These were all more or less complete, and much of it was professionally bound into strong volumes. However the denominational newspaper, The Queensland Baptist (from 1881-88 known as The Queensland Freeman) had a 25 year gap up to 1951 (and it was not published 1913-22). Another significant gap was in the Minutes of the Home Mission around World War I. One other serious gap was The Australian Baptist, the national newspaper published since 1913, of which there were only odd issues. (Efforts in the late 1980s to obtain a full run from its office in NSW were unsuccessful, as did the hope of getting a microfilm version when it was done by the State Library of NSW-on account of the high cost involved.)

There was a good collection of photographs, many loose but some in attractive albums; a lot were unidentified. There were also many 35 mm colour slides of churches, people and events which had mostly come from the collections of the Home Mission Superintendents and the BUQ General Secretary.

There were some records of local churches but the churches themselves held the bulk of their own records, especially the first churches to be formed in Queensland - City Tabernacle (originally known as Wharf St), Ipswich and Jireh (in Fortitude Valley). The oldest items in the BUQ Archives were, however, documents from early days of Wharf Street. There were no records relating to the first two Baptist ministers in Brisbane, Rev Charles Stewart and Rev Charles Smith, although there were some relating to the third minister, Rev BG Wilson. However, extensive research on these three pastors in later years discovered documents and information in other locations sufficient to record their stories in some detail.

Archives space and access was always a problem with the basement location, and there was no office equipment such as photocopiers, phones or working facilities available. However, Dr Parker with the occasional assistance of members of the Baptist Historical Society of Queensland (established in 1984), listed the contents and began developing the operation of the Archives according to standard (albeit simplified) archival procedures.

A set of rules for accessioning, indexing and use of the Archives was developed. However, on-going efforts to get the Baptist Union to set up a proper system of archiving its recent and new records were unsuccessful. Membership in the locally based Church Archivists' Society and access to its expertise and publications greatly assisted in the development of the Archives. There were gradual additions to the collection, and modest use by BUQ personnel, students, church and family history researchers. Dr Parker's position as Honorary Archivist was made official in 1987 when it was became part of the Annual BUQ appointments.