## 1985-6 THE YEAR

The Baptist Historical Society of Queensland has been able to sponsor
several public functions over the last year or so.

The first of these was a meeting at Taringa Baptist Church on Monday
August 26th, 1984 devoted to the life and work of Hiss Martha Plested,
Queensland's first Baptist missionary. The attendance was very small,
but as it consisted mainly of Australian Baptist Missionary Society
committee members, it had its own special quality. The material
presented was an augmented version of the Dr David Parker's earlier
article on Miss Plested. This material was well received by the
Queensland A.B.M.S. committee and has nON been published as an
attractive 12-page illustrated book, -The Martha Plested Story.Thanks
is expressed to Rev. George Stubbs who took up the idea and Rev.
John Ward who did the layout.

The October meeting was held at the Annerly Baptist ChUrch on 29th when
Rev. Peter Van Donge spoke on the life of Mr E.S. Jones, a prominent
leader of Annerly Church and a foremost Union official. H~ny local
members, family and other friends gathered to hear an interesting
account and to see the many records that had been collected. Mr Van
Donge's paper was summarised in the 4th issue of the BHSQ Newsletter.

At this meeting, Mrs" E.' Chataway assumed the position of Society
secretary and her husband, Rev V. Chataway became treasurer, to replace
Rev. o. Gregory who had moved out of town.

Planning. began early for the most ambitious project yet, a celebration
of German Baptist witness in the area west of Ipswich. The president
and Mr Dick Scanlan of Laidley worked on preliminary plans and then a
meeting of local church representatives was organised by Mr Scanlan.
After th~. initial enthusiastic response to the idea, firm plans were
laid, and thanks to the eager support of the churches, the function
turned out to be a grand success with hundreds attending. (see page 4)
It was held at Laidley ChUrch on July 5th, with Mr G. Roberts, who has
done a good deal of research, as the main speaker. He was assisted by
Rev. J. E. White, and many local church members contributed items,
especially for the celebration in the evening. There was also a large
display of historical items which aroused a great deal of interest.

A special issue of the BHSQ Newsletter was produced for the German
Baptist Celebration, containing summaries of the histories of the
churches and of the papers presented by Mr White and Mr Roberts. Tapes
were also made of the occasion. Both newsletter and tapes sold well.

A display, featuring the German Baptist Churches, was mounted at the
1986 Annual Assembly of the Baptist Union of Queensland, along with
literature inviting membership of the society.

At the end of the year, the membership of the SOCiety is still only
a dozen or so, which makes it difficult to maintain a full programme of
events. More members and friends are urgently needed!

Behind the scenes, there is a constant trickle of enquiries on matters
historical and occasional contact with other historical bodies. There
is still a good deal of Nork to be done on the Baptist archives, which
are being used by students and researchers from time to. time. A few
, Baptist college and other students are doing interesting work.