## BAPTIST HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND
### PROGRAMME FOR 1985
---

**SATURDAY,MARCH 30 - WORKSHOP SESSION**
	Time: 2:30 — 5 p.m. \\
	Location: Baptist Archives, Baptist House, 225\\
	Brunswick Street, Valley.\\
	This session is for BHSQ members interested in helping\\
	with work on the Baptist Union archives. There is a.
	continuing need to sort and catalogue the archives
	If you wish to spend a couple of hours, please contact
	Dr. Parker for details or what
	you can do and what you need to bring with you.
	
**MONDAY, APRIL 20 - "LAMPLIGHTER AND SON: **\\
**C.H. SPURGEON TONIGHT, IN PERSON!**
Time: 7:45 p.m. \\
Location: City Tabernacle Baptist Church 

A unique dramatic presentation to celebrate the C.H.
H _ Spurgeon sesqui-centenary by Rev. Dr. Craig Skinner.

The BHS is supporting this programme by making it an 
official meeting of the Society. For fuller details,
see the separate publicity materials issued by the _
City Tabernacle and other churches participating·in the
preliminary "Jubilate" programmes on April 17 - 19 (see 
pp. 6 and 7 for a review of Dr. Skinner's book,
*Lamplighter and Son*)

**MONDAY, JUNE 17 - "WINDSOR ROAD CHURCH - ITS PLACE IN OUR STORY"**

Time: 7:30 p.m. \\
Location: Windsor Road Baptist Church, Presented by Pastor Brian Robertson·
A great deal of interest has been generated by Windsor
Road Church in recent years by its remarkable revival
But it is also important as one of Queens1and's earliest
churches - it dates from 1877 or-earlier. It has had 
some fascinating ministries over the years and been 
highly_influential. Many leading figures in Baptist
work have been members there. A present pastor, Brian
Robertson, has taken a keen interest in the history
of windsor Road. Join us on June 17 to hear the story.

**ADVANCE NOTICE OF LATER MEETINGS .....**
MONDAY, AUGUST 18, 1985 \\
MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1985\\

Reserve these dates now ........ plan to be present!
If you have ideas for BHSQ meetings or activities,
contact the President or Secretary.